feat(sourcemaps): Update source maps docs (#6551)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platform-includes/sourcemaps/upload/cli/javascript.mdx

If you choose [`sentry-cli`](/product/cli/) as the method to upload your artifacts, we assume you already know how to generate source maps within your build toolchain.

Sentry has two ways of matching the correct uploaded source maps to your events:

1. The first is to use Debug IDs, which allow Sentry to automatically associate minified sources with their respective source maps without needing to create a release. _This method is the preferred way of uploading artifacts._

> 2. The second is to use a [release](/product/releases/) to identify the artifacts you uploaded containing all your source files. _This method will require the creation of a release._

Reviewer: So, you've articulated how these methods differ in uploading source maps, but I think it's better to focus on the implications of using releases here.

Author: Will fix it thanks!

If you choose [`sentry-cli`](/product/cli/) as the method to upload your artifacts, we assume you already know how to generate source maps within your build toolchain.

> Sentry has two ways of matching the correct uploaded source maps to your events:

Reviewer 2: Added a colon and a comma :)

> 1. The first is to use Debug IDs, which allow Sentry to automatically associate minified sources with their respective source maps without needing to create a release. _This method is the preferred way of uploading artifacts._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Using Debug IDs allows Sentry to automatically associate minified sources with their respective source maps without needing to create a release. _This is the preferred method of uploading artifacts._
```
Since there are just two methods and we mention it above, saying the first and the second in addition to the numbers feels repetitive.

> 2. The second is to use a [release](/product/releases/) to identify the artifacts you uploaded containing all your source files. _This method will require the creation of a release._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Using a [release](/product/releases/) to identify the artifacts you uploaded containing all your source files. _This method will require the creation of a release._
```

> The implications of having to create a release are mainly related to the fact that sometimes you don't want to create a release for a change in your application. For example, if you want to release a development build to test internally, you would like to have the errors symbolicated but you may not want to create a release that is going to be shown in the UI.

Reviewer 2: Added a few commas and change "which shows up" to "which would show up" since the rest of the sentence is in conditional tense.

#### Weak Release Associations

_Weak Release Associations_ are an extension of the Debug ID system. By weakly associating artifacts with a `release`, and optionally a `dist`, Sentry can look up sources for symbolication, even if Debug IDs are missing.

Creating a Weak Release Association doesn't create a release in Sentry. You must create a release with the same name you specified in the Weak Release Association as a separate step in your pipeline.

It's important that the name of the `release` you specify during upload exactly matches the name of the `release` you create with the `sentry-cli` and/or the `release` in your SDK, e.g.:
```javascript
Sentry.init({
  // This value must be identical to the release name specified during upload with the `sentry-cli`
  release: "<release_name>",
});
```

Add these parameters to the `upload` command to weakly associate artifacts with a `release` and optionally `dist`:

```bash

> sentry-cli sourcemaps upload --release=<release_name> --dist=<dist_name> /path/to/file

Author: Good point, how do we represent optional in docs?

> sentry-cli sourcemaps upload --release=<release_name> --dist=<dist_name> /path/to/file

Reviewer 3: I don't think there's a way to represent this as optional in this code snippet. We say it's optional in the preceding text though, so I think it's fine.

```

<Note>

While it's possible to only use Weak Release Associations and skip Debug ID injection via the `inject` command, we strongly recommend using Debug ID injection if it works with your project setup.

</Note>

## Option 2: Upload with Release (Legacy)

Sentry can also use [releases](/product/releases/) to match uploaded source maps to events. You can use `sentry-cli` to create releases and upload their source maps to Sentry.

<Note>

We strongly suggest to use the new Debug IDs system for uploading your artifacts since it provides more reliable symbolication and the old release-based system will be faded out in the future.

> </Note>

Reviewer 4: Instead of only saying that we recommend the new version, we should just say in which cases the legacy upload is useful. eg:

- bundler plugins don't work for some reason
- bundler plugins make bundle size too large
- integrity issues
- ...

> the old release-based system will be faded out in the future

This is not correct I think. We cannot phase out the old system. There are cases where debug id will not work. We shouldn't unnecessarily scare users with deprecation notices.

Author: We are already using an updated fetching system that doesn't use debug ids, thus everything will use the new endpoint and logic, irrespective of debug ids. The plan is to fade out the old system and use the weakly associated system or debug id one based on the user information.

</Note>

<Note>

Visit the [auth token user settings page](https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/) to find your auth tokens.

</Note>

## Upload with Debug ID (Preferred)

Debug IDs are a new feature we have released to account for most of the problems that users were incurring in with the release-based system. Since having events not symbolicated is big problem for our users, we designed Debug IDs to provide a reliable system that would solve the problems people were incurring.

> 

Reviewer: I would avoid explaining why we built this feature because I doubt people care. It might be better to use this time to explain what debug IDs are! 

For example; summarizing the process of injecting to uploading.

Author: Great feedback, will do!

Reviewer 3: This the current level of detail is fine. If you don't explain debug ids at all, the command `sentry-cli sourcemaps inject /path/to/folder` doesn't make sense. What are you injecting? Why?

It might sense to take another pass (can be in a later PR) at this and pull out all but the bare minimum explanation of debug ids into a separate doc.

### 1. Prepare Your Bundle

In order to use Debug IDs you will have to bundle your code with the `sourcesContent` field in the source map. This is required by Sentry when processing your events and will lead to problems in the case of absence since the context lines will not be computed.

<Note>

The generation of the `sourcesContent` will depend on your bundler configuration, therefore we reccomend you looking at the official docs.

</Note>

### 2. Enable The Debug IDs In Sentry CLI

Since Debug IDs are currently opt-in only, you should enable the following environment variable, which will tell Sentry CLI to use the new Debug IDs system for uploading your artifacts.

```bash
export SENTRY_FORCE_ARTIFACT_BUNDLES=1
```

### 3. Inject Debug IDs Using Sentry CLI

> Debug IDs require an additional but very important step, the injection. In this step, [`sentry-cli`](/product/cli/) will go over all the minified sources and their respective source maps and it will start adding custom metadata that is required by Sentry for correctly symbolicating the event.

Reviewer: As a user, I assume every step is important unless specified otherwise, so let's remove the first sentence from this paragraph.

```

<Note>

You can verify your injected artifact files by looking at their contents and searching for `debugId` in the minified sources and `debug_id` in the source maps.

</Note>

### 4. Upload Artifacts Using Sentry CLI

Once your artifact files are injected you can proceed to upload them to Sentry, with the `upload` command:

```bash
sentry-cli sourcemaps upload /path/to/file
```

<Note>

You can verify your uploaded artifacts by navigating to **Project Settings -> Source Maps (left sidebar) -> Debug ID Bundles** on Sentry.

</Note>

<Note>

Sentry CLI will notify you in case there are files that don't contain Debug IDs (e.g., you forgot to run the `inject` command). In that case, it will prompt you to weakly associate a release to the artifact. This weakly association is done in order to allow Sentry to properly symbolicate events without Debug IDs.

</Note>

#### Weak Release Association

Since Debug IDs might cause issues for some users, we extended the new Debug IDs system with the concept of _Weak Release Association_. With such system you are able to tell Sentry to weakly associate the artifacts you upload with a `release`, and optionally `dist`.

> 

Reviewer: What problems? Good to be specific or don't say it at all as it sounds like the feature is half-baked.

### 1. Generate Your Artifacts

To use Debug IDs, you'll have to bundle your code with the `sourcesContent` field in the source map. The generation of the `sourcesContent` will depend on your bundler configuration. Therefore, we recommend looking at the official docs of the bundler your application uses.

Here's an example of what this looks like for webpack:

```javascript {filename:webpack.config.js}
module.exports = {
  ...
  entry: "./src/index.js",
  output: {
    filename: "main.js",
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, "build"),
  },
  // Enable "sourcesContent".
  devtool: "source-map",
  ...
};
```

<Note>

The generation of the `sourcesContent` will depend on your bundler configuration, therefore we reccomend you looking at the official docs.

</Note>

### 2. Enable The Debug IDs In Sentry CLI

Since Debug IDs are currently opt-in only, you should enable the following environment variable, which will tell Sentry CLI to use the new Debug IDs system for uploading your artifacts.

```bash
export SENTRY_FORCE_ARTIFACT_BUNDLES=1
```

### 3. Inject Debug IDs Using Sentry CLI

> During injection, [`sentry-cli`](/product/cli/) will go over all the minified sources and their respective source maps and it will start adding Debug IDs that are required by Sentry for correctly symbolicating the event.

Reviewer 2: Added "the" (the Debug IDs)

export SENTRY_PROJECT=___PROJECT_SLUG___
```

## Upload with Debug ID

Debug IDs are a new feature we have released since we noticed that our current release-based system is prone to errors that will lead to non-symbolicated errors. Since this is a big problem for Sentry and our customers, we designed Debug IDs to provide a reliable system that would reduce all the problems people were incurring.

### 1. Prepare Your Bundle

In order to use Debug IDs you will have to bundle your code with the `sourcesContent` field in the source map. This is required by Sentry when processing your events and will lead to problems in the case of absence since the context lines will not be computed.

### 2. Enable The Debug IDs In Sentry CLI

Since Debug IDs are currently opt-in only, you should enable the following environment variable, which will tell the CLI to use the new Debug IDs system for uploading your source files.

```bash
export SENTRY_FORCE_ARTIFACT_BUNDLES=1
```

> ### 2. Inject Debug IDs Using Sentry CLI

Reviewer 5: Looks like we have #2 two times.

</Note>

#### Weak Release Association

Since Debug IDs might cause issues for some users, we extended the new Debug IDs system with the concept of _Weak Release Association_. With such system you are able to tell Sentry to weakly associate the artifacts you upload with a `release`, and optionally `dist`.

It is important that the name of the `release` you specified during upload will match exactly the name of the `release` in your SDK:
```javascript
Sentry.init({
  // Make sure this value is identical to the name you give the release that specify during upload using Sentry CLI
  release: "<release_name>",
});
```

In order to associate an upload with a `release` and optionally `dist` you can add new parameters to the `upload` command:

```bash
sentry-cli sourcemaps upload --release=<release_name> --dist=<dist_name> /path/to/file
```

<Note>

The difference between the old release-based system and the new system with weak release association is that in the new one we don't require you to create a release but you can just optimistically tell Sentry the name of your "future" release.

</Note>

> ## Upload with Release

Reviewer 5: Do we want to call out in the title that this is the beginning of another (old) approach?
I just looked at how the document flows, and I can see people just copy-pasting commands and not realizing that they are done and they don't need to continue with this step - it's just another, older approach.

Author: You are indeed right, I will try to think of a way to make it apparent.
